docs/user-doc/source/config.rst, before:

.. _config:

Configuration
=============

Configuration Files
+++++++++++++++++++

Nexoedge has essential four configuration files:

- ``general.ini``: Configurations required by *all* components
- ``proxy.ini``: Configurations required by ``proxy`` and ``ncloud_reporter``
- ``agent.ini``: Configurations required by ``agent``
- ``storage_class.ini``: Configuration of the classes of storage required by ``proxy``


Proxy (``proxy``), agent (``agent``) and reporter (``ncloud_reporter``) search the directories in the following order for the configuration files:

1. Directory path provided as the first argument when starting the components
2. Directory path saved in the environment variable ``NCLOUD_CONFIG_PATH``
3. Current directory

Common Configuration
++++++++++++++++++++

In ``general.ini``,

- ``log``: Logging
    - ``level``: Level of messages to print for logging
    - ``glog_to_console``: Whether to print log messages to console
    - ``glog_dir``: Directory to store log messages if not printed to console, default value is "/tmp/ncloud_log" 
- ``retry``: Retry settings before giving up an operation
    - ``num``: Number of retries
    - ``interval``: Time to wait between retries (in microseconds)
- ``data_integrity``: Data integrity
    - ``verify_chunk_checksum``: Whether to verify chunk checksum upon data access
- ``failure_detection``: Failure detection
    - ``timeout``: Timeout to declare agent failure (in milliseconds)
- ``event``: Event listening settings
    - ``event_probe_timeout``: Timeout of an event probe over a socket (in milliseconds)
- ``benchmark``: Benchmark framework
    - ``stripe_enabled``: Whether to enable stripe-level benchmark
- ``network``: Network settings
    - ``listen_all_ips``: Whether to listen to all IP address (i.e., 0.0.0.0/0)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive``: Whether to use manual TCP keep-alive settings
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_idle``: Connection idle time before sending the first TCP keep-alive packet (in seconds)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_intv``: Time interval between TCP keep-alive packets (in seconds)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_cnt``: Number of keep-alive packets to sent before giving up an unresponsive connection 
    - ``tcp_buffer_size``: TCP send/receive buffer size (in bytes)
    - ``use_curve``: Whether to use the CURVE mechanism for all connections between proxies and agents for security
    - ``agent_curve_public_key_file``: Agent permanent public key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent and proxy)
    - ``agent_curve_secret_key_file``: Agent permanent secret key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent)
    - ``proxy_curve_public_key_file``: Proxy permanent public key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent and proxy)
    - ``proxy_curve_secret_key_file``: Proxy permanent secret key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for proxy)
- ``proxy``: Proxy
    - ``num_proxy``: Number of proxies to connect
- ``proxy[01-99]``: Proxy information
    - ``ip``: IP address
    - ``coord_port``: Port number for listening incoming coordinator requests from agents


Proxy Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++

In ``proxy.ini``,

- ``proxy``: Proxy
    - ``num``: Entry number of the corresponding proxy to host in the proxy list in ``general.ini``
    - ``namespace_id``: Storage namespace ID
    - ``interface``: Communication interface
- ``storage_class``: Storage class configuration
    - ``path``: Path to the storage class configuration file
- ``metastore``: Metadata store
    - ``type``: Type of metadata store
    - ``ip``: IP address of the metadata store
    - ``port``: Port of the metadata store
    - ``ssl_ca_cert_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS CA cert for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_client_cert_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS client cert for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_client_key_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS client cert private key for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_trusted_certs_dir``: Path to an SSL/TLS-CA-cert-containing directory for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if not used 
    - ``ssl_domain_name``: Domain name of the metadata store for SSL/TLS, leave blank if not used 
    - ``auth_user``: User name for authentication, leave blank for passwordless access
    - ``auth_password``: Password for authentication, leave blank for passwordless access
- ``recovery``: Recovery
    - ``trigger_enabled``: Whether to enable background automatic recovery
    - ``trigger_start_interval``: Time between triggerings of recovery operation (in seconds)
    - ``scan_interval``: Time between scannings of file metadata for files to recover (in seconds)
    - ``batch_size``: Number of files to recover concurrently in each operation
    - ``scan_chunk_interval``: Time between chunk checksum verifications (in hours)
    - ``scan_chunk_batch_size``: Number of chunks to scan in a batch
    - ``chunk_scan_sampling_policy``: Chunk scanning sampling policies
    - ``chunk_scan_sampling_rate``: Chunk scanning sampling rate
- ``data_distribution``: Data distribution
    - ``policy``: Policy for distributing data to containers
    - ``near_ip_range``: Space-separated ranges of agent IP addresses to consider as near (e.g., lower latency) to the proxy, e.g., 192.168.0.0/24 (leave blank if not needed)
- ``background_write``: Write redundancy in background (alpha)
    - ``ack_redundancy_in_background``: Whether to acknowledge write responses of redundancy in background
    - ``write_redundancy_in_background``: Whether to write redundancy in background (note setting this to true will also set ``ack_redundancy_in_background`` to true)
    - ``num_background_chunk_worker``: Number of background workers to handler chunk events in background
    - ``background_task_check_interval``: Time between checks on background task status (in seconds)
- ``misc``: Misc
    - ``zmq_thread``: Number of threads in ZeroMQ context 
    - ``repair_at_proxy``: Whether to perform data repair at the proxy (instead of an agent)
    - ``overwrite_files``: Whether to remove old data chunks for overwrite 
    - ``reuse_data_connection``: Reuse data connections for chunk transfer
    - ``liveness_cache_time``: Time to cache alive liveness status (in seconds)
    - ``repair_using_car``: Whether to apply the improved repair technique
    - ``agent_list``: List of agents to actively connect
- ``zmq_interface``: ZeroMQ interface
    - ``num_workers``: Number of workers request handling
    - ``port``: Port number for the ZeroMQ interface to listen on
- ``reporter_db``: Database (Redis) for storing operation statistics
    - ``ip``: IP for the database (leave blank if reporter is not used)
    - ``port``: Port of the database
    - ``record_buffer_size``: Maximum number of records to buffer
- ``staging``: Staging
    - ``enabled``: Whether staging is enabled
    - ``url``: File storage directory
    - ``autoclean_policy``: Auto cleaning policy of staged file
    - ``autoclean_num_days_expire``: Number of days a file has not been accessed before expiring it for auto-cleaning
    - ``autoclean_scan_interval``: Auto-cleaning file scan interval (in seconds)
    - ``bgwrite_policy``: Background write-back policy
    - ``bgwrite_scan_interval``: Interval of checks for background write-back (in seconds)
    - ``bgwrite_scheduled_time``: Scheduled time for daily background write in format 'hh:mm'


Agent Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++

In ``agent.ini``,

- ``agent``: Agent
    - ``ip``: IP address
    - ``port``: Port number for listening incoming chunk requests
    - ``coord_port``: Port for listening incoming coordinator requests
    - ``num_containers``: Number of managed containers
- ``misc``: Misc
    - ``num_workers``: Number of workers to handle chunk requests 
    - ``zmq_thread``: Number of threads in ZeroMQ context 
    - ``copy_block_size``: Block size for chunk copying (for containers on local file system)
    - ``flush_on_close``: Whether to flush and sync data before a file stream closes for local file system containers
    - ``register_to_proxy``: Whether to register to the list of proxies (in ``general.ini``) on start 
- ``container[00-99]``: Data containers
    - ``type``: Container type; local file system: 'fs', Aliyun: 'alibaba', AWS S3: 'aws', Azure: 'azure', Generic S3: 'generic_s3'
    - ``id``: Container ID, must be *UNIQUE* among all containers of all agents
    - ``url``: Location for chunk storage and access
        - Local file system: Directory path 
        - Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3: Bucket name
        - Azure: Storage account connection string
    - ``region``: Region name for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3, e.g. cn-hongkong, ap-east-1
    - ``key_id``: Key ID for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3
    - ``key``: Secret key for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3
    - ``capacity``: Container capacity
    - ``endpoint``: Endpoint (e.g., https://localhost:59002) for generic S3
    - ``verify_ssl``: Whether to verify the SSL/TLS certificate for an HTTPS endpoint (e.g., https://localhost:59002) for generic S3


Storage Class Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In ``storage_class.ini``, the section name should be a unique class name. Under each section (i.e., each class),

- ``default``: Whether this class is a default
- ``coding``: Coding scheme
- ``n``: Coding parameter, n (or the total number of chunks)
- ``k``: Coding parameter, k (or the number of data chunks)
- ``f``: Minimum number of agent failures to tolerate
- ``max_chunk_size``: Maximum size of a chunk

Commit message:

Update the configuration options for immutable policy management APIs; add unit test cases on authentication
Signed-off-by: Helen Chan <hwchan@cse.cuhk.edu.hk>

docs/user-doc/source/config.rst, after:

.. _config:

Configuration
=============

Configuration Files
+++++++++++++++++++

Nexoedge has essential four configuration files:

- ``general.ini``: Configurations required by *all* components
- ``proxy.ini``: Configurations required by ``proxy`` and ``ncloud_reporter``
- ``agent.ini``: Configurations required by ``agent``
- ``storage_class.ini``: Configuration of the classes of storage required by ``proxy``


Proxy (``proxy``), agent (``agent``) and reporter (``ncloud_reporter``) search the directories in the following order for the configuration files:

1. Directory path provided as the first argument when starting the components
2. Directory path saved in the environment variable ``NCLOUD_CONFIG_PATH``
3. Current directory

Common Configuration
++++++++++++++++++++

In ``general.ini``,

- ``log``: Logging
    - ``level``: Level of messages to print for logging
    - ``glog_to_console``: Whether to print log messages to console
    - ``glog_dir``: Directory to store log messages if not printed to console, default value is "/tmp/ncloud_log" 
- ``retry``: Retry settings before giving up an operation
    - ``num``: Number of retries
    - ``interval``: Time to wait between retries (in microseconds)
- ``data_integrity``: Data integrity
    - ``verify_chunk_checksum``: Whether to verify chunk checksum upon data access
- ``failure_detection``: Failure detection
    - ``timeout``: Timeout to declare agent failure (in milliseconds)
- ``event``: Event listening settings
    - ``event_probe_timeout``: Timeout of an event probe over a socket (in milliseconds)
- ``benchmark``: Benchmark framework
    - ``stripe_enabled``: Whether to enable stripe-level benchmark
- ``network``: Network settings
    - ``listen_all_ips``: Whether to listen to all IP address (i.e., 0.0.0.0/0)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive``: Whether to use manual TCP keep-alive settings
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_idle``: Connection idle time before sending the first TCP keep-alive packet (in seconds)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_intv``: Time interval between TCP keep-alive packets (in seconds)
    - ``tcp_keep_alive_cnt``: Number of keep-alive packets to sent before giving up an unresponsive connection 
    - ``tcp_buffer_size``: TCP send/receive buffer size (in bytes)
    - ``use_curve``: Whether to use the CURVE mechanism for all connections between proxies and agents for security
    - ``agent_curve_public_key_file``: Agent permanent public key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent and proxy)
    - ``agent_curve_secret_key_file``: Agent permanent secret key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent)
    - ``proxy_curve_public_key_file``: Proxy permanent public key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for agent and proxy)
    - ``proxy_curve_secret_key_file``: Proxy permanent secret key file for ZeroMQ CURVE  (essential for proxy)
- ``proxy``: Proxy
    - ``num_proxy``: Number of proxies to connect
- ``proxy[01-99]``: Proxy information
    - ``ip``: IP address
    - ``coord_port``: Port number for listening incoming coordinator requests from agents


Proxy Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++

In ``proxy.ini``,

- ``proxy``: Proxy
    - ``num``: Entry number of the corresponding proxy to host in the proxy list in ``general.ini``
    - ``namespace_id``: Storage namespace ID
    - ``interface``: Communication interface
- ``storage_class``: Storage class configuration
    - ``path``: Path to the storage class configuration file
- ``metastore``: Metadata store
    - ``type``: Type of metadata store
    - ``ip``: IP address of the metadata store
    - ``port``: Port of the metadata store
    - ``ssl_ca_cert_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS CA cert for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_client_cert_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS client cert for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_client_key_path``: Path to an SSL/TLS client cert private key for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if SSL/TLS is not used
    - ``ssl_trusted_certs_dir``: Path to an SSL/TLS-CA-cert-containing directory for connections to the metadata store, leave blank if not used 
    - ``ssl_domain_name``: Domain name of the metadata store for SSL/TLS, leave blank if not used 
    - ``auth_user``: User name for authentication, leave blank for passwordless access
    - ``auth_password``: Password for authentication, leave blank for passwordless access
- ``recovery``: Recovery
    - ``trigger_enabled``: Whether to enable background automatic recovery
    - ``trigger_start_interval``: Time between triggerings of recovery operation (in seconds)
    - ``scan_interval``: Time between scannings of file metadata for files to recover (in seconds)
    - ``batch_size``: Number of files to recover concurrently in each operation
    - ``scan_chunk_interval``: Time between chunk checksum verifications (in hours)
    - ``scan_chunk_batch_size``: Number of chunks to scan in a batch
    - ``chunk_scan_sampling_policy``: Chunk scanning sampling policies
    - ``chunk_scan_sampling_rate``: Chunk scanning sampling rate
- ``data_distribution``: Data distribution
    - ``policy``: Policy for distributing data to containers
    - ``near_ip_range``: Space-separated ranges of agent IP addresses to consider as near (e.g., lower latency) to the proxy, e.g., 192.168.0.0/24 (leave blank if not needed)
- ``background_write``: Write redundancy in background (alpha)
    - ``ack_redundancy_in_background``: Whether to acknowledge write responses of redundancy in background
    - ``write_redundancy_in_background``: Whether to write redundancy in background (note setting this to true will also set ``ack_redundancy_in_background`` to true)
    - ``num_background_chunk_worker``: Number of background workers to handler chunk events in background
    - ``background_task_check_interval``: Time between checks on background task status (in seconds)
- ``misc``: Misc
    - ``zmq_thread``: Number of threads in ZeroMQ context 
    - ``repair_at_proxy``: Whether to perform data repair at the proxy (instead of an agent)
    - ``overwrite_files``: Whether to remove old data chunks for overwrite 
    - ``reuse_data_connection``: Reuse data connections for chunk transfer
    - ``liveness_cache_time``: Time to cache alive liveness status (in seconds)
    - ``repair_using_car``: Whether to apply the improved repair technique
    - ``agent_list``: List of agents to actively connect
- ``zmq_interface``: ZeroMQ interface
    - ``num_workers``: Number of workers request handling
    - ``port``: Port number for the ZeroMQ interface to listen on
- ``immutable_mgt_apis``: RESTful APIs for immutable storage policy management
    - ``enabled``: Whether to enable the APIs
    - ``ip``: IP for the immutable policy management APIs to listen on
    - ``port``: Port for the immutable policy management APIs to listen on
    - ``num_workers``: Number of workers to handle requsts
    - ``timeout``: Connection timeout in seconds
    - ``ssl_cert``: Path to the SSL certificate file for HTTPS communication
    - ``ssl_cert_key``: Path to the SSL certificate key file for HTTPS communication
    - ``ssl_cert_password``: Path to the SSL certificate password file for HTTPS communication
    - ``ssl_dh``: Path to the SSL DH parameter file for HTTPS communication
    - ``jwt_private_key``: Path to the private key file for asymetric JWT token generation
    - ``jwt_public_key``: Path to the public key file for asymetric JWT token generation
    - ``jwt_secret_key``: Path to the secret key file for symetric JWT token generation
- ``ldap_auth``: LDAP backed authentication (for authenticating administrators for immutable storage policy management)
    - ``uri``: URI of the LDAP server
    - ``user_organization``: User organization of the LDAP users
    - ``dn_suffix``: DN suffix of the LDAP users
- ``reporter_db``: Database (Redis) for storing operation statistics
    - ``ip``: IP for the database (leave blank if reporter is not used)
    - ``port``: Port of the database
    - ``record_buffer_size``: Maximum number of records to buffer
- ``staging``: Staging
    - ``enabled``: Whether staging is enabled
    - ``url``: File storage directory
    - ``autoclean_policy``: Auto cleaning policy of staged file
    - ``autoclean_num_days_expire``: Number of days a file has not been accessed before expiring it for auto-cleaning
    - ``autoclean_scan_interval``: Auto-cleaning file scan interval (in seconds)
    - ``bgwrite_policy``: Background write-back policy
    - ``bgwrite_scan_interval``: Interval of checks for background write-back (in seconds)
    - ``bgwrite_scheduled_time``: Scheduled time for daily background write in format 'hh:mm'


Agent Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++

In ``agent.ini``,

- ``agent``: Agent
    - ``ip``: IP address
    - ``port``: Port number for listening incoming chunk requests
    - ``coord_port``: Port for listening incoming coordinator requests
    - ``num_containers``: Number of managed containers
- ``misc``: Misc
    - ``num_workers``: Number of workers to handle chunk requests 
    - ``zmq_thread``: Number of threads in ZeroMQ context 
    - ``copy_block_size``: Block size for chunk copying (for containers on local file system)
    - ``flush_on_close``: Whether to flush and sync data before a file stream closes for local file system containers
    - ``register_to_proxy``: Whether to register to the list of proxies (in ``general.ini``) on start 
- ``container[00-99]``: Data containers
    - ``type``: Container type; local file system: 'fs', Aliyun: 'alibaba', AWS S3: 'aws', Azure: 'azure', Generic S3: 'generic_s3'
    - ``id``: Container ID, must be *UNIQUE* among all containers of all agents
    - ``url``: Location for chunk storage and access
        - Local file system: Directory path 
        - Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3: Bucket name
        - Azure: Storage account connection string
    - ``region``: Region name for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3, e.g. cn-hongkong, ap-east-1
    - ``key_id``: Key ID for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3
    - ``key``: Secret key for Aliyun, AWS S3, and generic S3
    - ``capacity``: Container capacity
    - ``endpoint``: Endpoint (e.g., https://localhost:59002) for generic S3
    - ``verify_ssl``: Whether to verify the SSL/TLS certificate for an HTTPS endpoint (e.g., https://localhost:59002) for generic S3


Storage Class Configuration
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In ``storage_class.ini``, the section name should be a unique class name. Under each section (i.e., each class),

- ``default``: Whether this class is a default
- ``coding``: Coding scheme
- ``n``: Coding parameter, n (or the total number of chunks)
- ``k``: Coding parameter, k (or the number of data chunks)
- ``f``: Minimum number of agent failures to tolerate
- ``max_chunk_size``: Maximum size of a chunk
